---
title: About me
kind: home
layout: single
summary: ""
aliases: ["/about"]
---

My absolute passion lies in creating products that make our everyday lives
easier. I strive to avoid unnecessary repetition and always look for new ways to
improve.

Now, unfortunately, I have two left hands when it comes to topics like
electrical circuits or creating inventions like washing machines or dishwashers.
Fortunately, through my skills as a software developer, I can enable digital
products that take work off our hands or offer exciting tasks in our spare time.
So far, I have been able to solve manually complex tasks through a time-tracking
calendar, the easy recording of card game results, and improving the product for
registering damages in windscreens. I’m really lucky that all the different
groups I worked with had a great team spirit. Everyone was able to contribute
his/her strengths to improve the products so that they can be loved by thousands
of users today.

To be always able to find the best solutions for emerging challenges, continuous
training is essential for me because the focus is always on creating the best
product for the customer. Frameworks for the frontend or backend are always just
tools, so the highest interest for myself is to be able to handle them
competently. Therefore, it doesn’t matter if the product uses Angular, React,
Typescript, Go… I’m in!

To create exciting applications again and again, it is important to think
outside the box of software development. I love to explore the world! Travelling
together with my wife always gives us new impressions. During my studies of
computer science, I became a little bookworm, so you will find me on the weekend
with a cup of hot tea and a good book or “The Economist”.

{{< utils/load-content "resume/professional.md">}}
